# Particle_Accelerator_Simulation

Our idea is to simulate a particle accelerator colliding either e- and e+ or protons and anti-protons. We mostly would like to focus on the physics of the collision and particles subsequently produced rather than the actual acceleration of the particles or detecting the products of their annihilation. Basically, we would model each particle's path using differential equations, and use random probabilities/Monte Carlo simulation to determine their mass, lifetime, and decays, while conserving energy and momenta.

First we would have to model e- and e+ travelling through the "detector" with some energy, momentum, etc. until they collide. When the particles collide, they annihilate and the particles produced are random but based on some probability e.g. we could just start with a 50/50 chance of producing D0 and its antiparticle D0 bar or D+ and its antiparticle D- (I'm fairly sure annihilation usually produces a particle and its antiparticle). In this collision we would have to conserve energy and momentum from the original particles to their "daughter" particles. Then we would model these daughter particles travelling through the "detector" with some mass, energy, momentum, etc. taking into account the magnetic field in the detector for charged particles. Each timestep these daughter particles would have some probability of decaying or changing from themselves into more daughter particles eg. D0 may decay to a kaon (K+) and a pion (pi-). Both aspects are based on probabilities e.g.  we could set D0 to have a 50/50 of decaying to K+ pi- or K- pi+. Again, charge, energy, etc. are conserved in this decay. From my research, We know that we can detect K+, K-, pi+, and pi- with a detector so at this point we would have our final state of particles (or we could keep going until we get stable particles that don't decay). At this point we could stop the simulation. What we would like to do then (if possible) would be to plot the path traveled by each particle before it decayed/was annihilated/was "detected" and maybe color code based on what particle it was e.g. something like this picture
 https://www.linearcollider.org/images/pid/1000890/gallery/25_CLIC_pandora_front2.jpg 
only much much simpler and we would ingnore the detector's response. Another idea would be to print out the chain of decays that occurred with the properties of each particle... 
e.g. D0 -> K+ pi-  ... D0: Energy = ... Mass = ... Lifetime = ... , K+: Energy = ...   and so on. I also use evtgen in my research which simulates accelerator physics, so we would be able to compare our results with what an actual Monte Carlo simulation used in research produces.

Information on the particles' masses, widths, lifetimes, and decay probabilities are available from the particle data group at http://pdg.lbl.gov/2015/listings/contents_listings.html  . For example D0's information is located at http://pdg.lbl.gov/2015/listings/rpp2015-list-D-zero.pdf . Information on its mass and lifetime is on the first page, the list of decays and the probability of each decay is located on pages 11-20. Clearly there are too many decays with very small probabilities of happening so we would just choose a couple easy to model ones and choose their probabilities based on their relative probability of happening.
